README.md, before:

# slack-exporter

A Slack bot and standalone script for exporting messages and file attachments from public and private channels, using Slack's new Conversations API.

A similar service is provided by Slack for workspace admins at [https://my.slack.com/services/export](https://my.slack.com/services/export) (where `my` can be replaced with your full workspace name to refer to a workspace different than your default). However, it can only access public channels, while `slack-exporter` can retrieve data from any channel accessible to your user account.

## Authentication with Slack

There are two ways to use `slack-exporter` (detailed below). Both require a Slack API token to be able to communicate with your workspace.

1. Visit [https://api.slack.com/apps/](https://api.slack.com/apps/) and sign in to your workspace.
2. Click `Create New App`. If prompted to select "how you'd like to configure your app's scopes", choose the `App Manifest` option. You can configure the app manually instead, but you will be prompted to enter an app name and additional steps to set up permissions instead of the single step below. Once creates, select your workspace.
3. You should then be prompted for an app manifest. Paste the contents of the `slack.yaml` file (in the root of this repo) into the YAML box.
4. Select `Install to Workspace` at the top of that page (or `Reinstall to Workspace` if you have done this previously) and accept at the prompt.
5. Copy the `OAuth Access Token` (which will generally start with `xoxp` for user-level permissions and may be located in a section like "OAuth & Permissions" in the sidebar).

## Usage

### As a standalone script

`exporter.py` can create an archive of all conversation history in your workspace which is accessible to your user account.

1. Either add 

    ```text
    SLACK_USER_TOKEN = xoxp-xxxxxxxxxxxxx...
    ```
    
    to a file named `.env` in the same directory as `exporter.py`, or run the following in your shell (replacing the value with the user token you obtained in the [Authentication with Slack](#authentication-with-slack) section above).

    ```shell script
    export SLACK_USER_TOKEN=xoxp-xxxxxxxxxxxxx...
    ```

2. If you cloned this repo, make sure that dependencies are installed by running `pip install -r requirements.txt` in the repo root directory.
3. Run `python exporter.py --help` to view the available export options. You can test that access to Slack is working by listing available conversations: `python exporter.py --lc`.

### As a Slack bot

`bot.py` is a Slack bot that responds to "slash commands" in Slack channels (e.g., `/export-channel`). To connect the bot to the Slack app generated in [Authentication with Slack](#authentication-with-slack), create a file named `.env` in the root directory of this repo, and add the following line:

```text
SLACK_USER_TOKEN = xoxp-xxxxxxxxxxxxx...
``` 

Save this file and run the Flask application in `bot.py` such that the application is exposed to the Internet. This can be done via a web server (e.g., Heroku), as well as via the ngrok service, which assigns your `localhost` server a public URL.

To use the ngrok method:

1. [Download](https://ngrok.com/download) the appropriate binary.
2. Run `python bot.py`
3. Run the ngrok binary with `path/to/ngrok http 5000`, where `5000` is the port on which the Flask application (step 2) is running. Copy the forwarding HTTPS address provided.

4. Create the following slash commands will be created (one for each applicable Flask route in `bot.py`):

    | Command         | Request URL                               | Arguments    | Example Usage        |
    |-----------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------|----------------------|
    | /export-channel | https://`[host_url]`/slack/export-channel | json \| text | /export-channel text |
    | /export-replies | https://`[host_url]`/slack/export-replies | json \| text | /export-replies json |

    To do this, uncomment the `slash-commands` section in `slack.yaml` and replace `YOUR_HOST_URL_HERE` with something like `https://xxxxxxxxxxxx.ngrok.io` (if using ngrok). Then navigate back to `OAuth & Permissions` and click `(Re)install to Workspace` to add these slash commands to the workspace (ensure the OAuth token in your `.env` file is still correct).

## Author

[Seb Seager](https://github.com/sebseager)

## License

This software is available under the [GPL](LICENSE).

Commit message:

docs: update README with CSV export enhancements and contributors

README.md, after:

# slack-exporter

A Slack bot and standalone script for exporting messages and file attachments from public and private channels, using Slack's new Conversations API.

A similar service is provided by Slack for workspace admins at [https://my.slack.com/services/export](https://my.slack.com/services/export) (where `my` can be replaced with your full workspace name to refer to a workspace different than your default). However, it can only access public channels, while `slack-exporter` can retrieve data from any channel accessible to your user account.

## Enhancements in This Fork

This fork extends the original slack-exporter with additional export capabilities:

- **CSV Export**: Export Slack conversations and data in CSV format for improved data portability and analysis
- **Media File Integration**: Enhanced handling of media files during the export process
- **Enhanced Documentation**: Improved documentation for the CSV converter functionality

These enhancements make it easier to analyze Slack data, create backups, or migrate conversations to other platforms.

## Authentication with Slack

There are two ways to use `slack-exporter` (detailed below). Both require a Slack API token to be able to communicate with your workspace.

1. Visit [https://api.slack.com/apps/](https://api.slack.com/apps/) and sign in to your workspace.
2. Click `Create New App`. If prompted to select "how you'd like to configure your app's scopes", choose the `App Manifest` option. You can configure the app manually instead, but you will be prompted to enter an app name and additional steps to set up permissions instead of the single step below. Once created, select your workspace.
3. You should then be prompted for an app manifest. Paste the contents of the `slack.yaml` file (in the root of this repo) into the YAML box.
4. Select `Install to Workspace` at the top of that page (or `Reinstall to Workspace` if you have done this previously) and accept at the prompt.
5. Copy the `OAuth Access Token` (which will generally start with `xoxp` for user-level permissions and may be located in a section like "OAuth & Permissions" in the sidebar).

## Usage

### As a standalone script

`exporter.py` can create an archive of all conversation history in your workspace which is accessible to your user account.

1. Either add 

    ```text
    SLACK_USER_TOKEN = xoxp-xxxxxxxxxxxxx...
    ```
    
    to a file named `.env` in the same directory as `exporter.py`, or run the following in your shell (replacing the value with the user token you obtained in the [Authentication with Slack](#authentication-with-slack) section above).

    ```shell script
    export SLACK_USER_TOKEN=xoxp-xxxxxxxxxxxxx...
    ```

2. If you cloned this repo, make sure that dependencies are installed by running `pip install -r requirements.txt` in the repo root directory.
3. Run `python exporter.py --help` to view the available export options. You can test that access to Slack is working by listing available conversations: `python exporter.py --lc`.


### CSV Export

This fork includes additional CSV export functionality. Run `python exporter.py --help` to see the available CSV export options alongside the original export formats.


### As a Slack bot

`bot.py` is a Slack bot that responds to "slash commands" in Slack channels (e.g., `/export-channel`). To connect the bot to the Slack app generated in [Authentication with Slack](#authentication-with-slack), create a file named `.env` in the root directory of this repo, and add the following line:

```text
SLACK_USER_TOKEN = xoxp-xxxxxxxxxxxxx...
``` 

Save this file and run the Flask application in `bot.py` such that the application is exposed to the Internet. This can be done via a web server (e.g., Heroku), as well as via the ngrok service, which assigns your `localhost` server a public URL.

To use the ngrok method:

1. [Download](https://ngrok.com/download) the appropriate binary.
2. Run `python bot.py`
3. Run the ngrok binary with `path/to/ngrok http 5000`, where `5000` is the port on which the Flask application (step 2) is running. Copy the forwarding HTTPS address provided.

4. Create the following slash commands will be created (one for each applicable Flask route in `bot.py`):

    | Command         | Request URL                               | Arguments    | Example Usage        |
    |-----------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------|----------------------|
    | /export-channel | https://`[host_url]`/slack/export-channel | json \| text | /export-channel text |
    | /export-replies | https://`[host_url]`/slack/export-replies | json \| text | /export-replies json |

    To do this, uncomment the `slash-commands` section in `slack.yaml` and replace `YOUR_HOST_URL_HERE` with something like `https://xxxxxxxxxxxx.ngrok.io` (if using ngrok). Then navigate back to `OAuth & Permissions` and click `(Re)install to Workspace` to add these slash commands to the workspace (ensure the OAuth token in your `.env` file is still correct).

## Author

- [Seb Seager](https://github.com/sebseager) - Original author
- [g8rdier](https://github.com/g8rdier) - CSV export functionality and media file support

## License

This software is available under the [GPL](LICENSE).
